# Rez TSC Meeting Notes - 2022-10-20

## Attendance

* Host: Stephen Mackenzie
* Secretary: Stephen Mackenzie
* TSC Attendees:
    * [ ] Allan Johns - NVIDIA
    * [ ] Brendan Abel - Walt-Disney Imagineering
    * [x] Jean-Christophe Morin
    * [x] Stephen Mackenzie - NVIDIA
    * [x] Thorsten Kaufmann - Accenture Song Content / Mackevision
* Other Attendees:
    * [x] Jason Scott - FuseFX / Rising Sun / FOLKS / El Ranchito
    * [x] Jeff Bradley Dreamworks
    * [x] Thomas Trently
    * [x] Zach Lewis - Company3 / Method Studios
    * [x] Samuel Eichner Company3 / Method Studios
    * [x] Jonas Avrin - Encore VFX
    * [x] Joel Pollack - Dreamworks


## Agenda

* Agenda Issue: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1386]
* [x] Update on where we are at on ASWF related tasks
* [x] Plan next release
    * [x] Identify PRs that will go into the next release
    * [ ] Assign reviewers
    * [ ] Anything else required to get the release done
* [x] Going through many of the old PRs and Issues
* [ ] Open Q&A
    * [ ] What are your pain points?
    * [ ] Where do you most want to see effort put into the project currently?
    * [ ] How do we add the most value (and drive further adoption) with the least effort?
* [ ] Discuss prioritization of efforts, eg:
    * [ ] ASWF matters (finalizing governance.md etc);
    * [ ] Identifying and triaging quality of life improvements / low hanging fruit;
    * [ ] Triaging long-standing PRs;
    * [ ] Planning/implementation of longer term features
* [x] Discuss branch/release workflow
    * [x] Current strategy is simple and linear, which has its downsides
    * [x] Should we move to (eg) dev branch and scheduled major releases?


Action Item: Take the issue and document the approaches, Pros/Cons of each approach, for a future vote


## Short Version / Decisions / Discussions / Action Items / Important Links

* Decisions:
    * N/A
* Discussions:
    * Update on ASWF-related tasks
    * Next Release
    * Going through old PRs / branches
    * Release Workflow
* Action Items:
    * TSC: Get a first release out
    * TSC: Get TSC members to have repository settings permissions
    * TSC: Vote on / implement "delete branch after merge" default
    * Stephen: master to main branch switchover
    * Sam: Let us know when Windows pathing issue is ready
* Links:
    * (Governance)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1392]
    * (Docs PR)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1391]
    * (REZ_USED_LOCAL_RESOLVE)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1378]
    * (rez-pip platform/arch)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1287]
    * (powershell appendenv regression)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1285]
    * (Release/Branch Strategy)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1247]

## Details

### Welcome
* (SM):
    * Welcome!
    * No Allan today, one-off work-meeting conflict, so I've been asked to run the agenda today.
    * We have several things unaddressed from last meetnig, and some new things this time.
    * New things are mostly from TSC members for discuss.
    * TSC seems to feel that there are some things that could be prioritized in order to unblock and not-hold-up things that the community cares about, such as actual releases coming out and so forth, since we haven't had an actual release come out since the ASWF-ization.
    * In front of community stuff, we're just going to put a couple of ASWF specific agenda items and we'll see how it shakes out, and I don't think it'll take the whole meeting so we'll still get to some of the other things.

### Update on ASWF-related tasks
* (JCM):
    * Yes, that was me.
    * Basically wanted to update on where we are, because we have some stuff to do to get the TSC and project into good shape. One of these is the governance model. We have an issue where we all commented on it and defining it, not yet entirely defined, a few things still unknown to us and at least that is still going on, and we really need to get that done soon because it's a big blocker.
    * We also did a bunch of little things, like...
    * We Set codeowners to be the agreed TSC members, so it's not just Allan by default on new Pull Requests, it will be the whole TSC, to help reduce the bottleneck on Allan.
* (SM):
    * Are there any pieces of the governance stuff that seem like they should have any community feedback?
* (JCM):
    * It's up to us - We can ask for feedback but it's ultimately up to us. Everyone is welcome to comment on it. But there's nothing that guarantees that your comment is something that is addressed.
    * One thing that could be nice is, the one thing regarding company names. Right now, the TSC members have their company listed and who they are working for. We were a little bit split to have it clear who works for who and we don't just all work for one company and take control of the project. Although legally the project is owned by the LF, just so that everyones interests are not necessarily in one bucket.
* (SM):
    * Points for transparency, right?
* (ZL):
    * with OpenColorIO, Autodesk does a lot of the contributions, and the rule there is they need at least two non-Autodesk reviewers to approve a PR in order to actual merge stuff. Might be worth considering. Though I think where Color stuff is concerned, they might have more vested interests that require that sort of relationship. 
* (JS):
    * I think it's good for transparency, but as long as we have a disclaimer that just because we're listing the companies, it's not listing them as an endorsement of company support or company time. Could mark where any individuals do or don't. Some kind of indication of when it is or is-not direct time endorsed by the company.
* (SM):
    * company name plus asterisk?
* (ZL):
    * That's a great idea.
* (JCM):
    * Maybe Zach knows: There is some wording in the paperwork stuff or whether it relates to the TAC or TSCs, in one of them there is wording that you cannot be a member on behalf of a company, so that might already be started somewhere.
* (JS):
    * The TAC has voting members of companies, representing the companies, so they are voting members, ...
* (SM):
    * I think it's that the TAC voting members are explicitly there on behalf of the companies, but if you just show up as yourself even though you work for one of them, that's explicitly not on behalf of the companies, i.e. you have to be a company-approved TAC rep in order for your vote to count.
    * Not sure if that applies to TSC or not, that may be project-specific.
    * Might be good to look at OpenTimelineIO, since there was originally clearly a heavy pixar vibe early on.
* (JS):
    * Also just referencing that last-meeting we all introduced ourselves, we all said I'm here but I'm not here on behalf of X, so we already felt like we had to provide that disclaimer, so I think it's not necessarily wrong to be explicit in our governance of the same. Looking for precedence in the other governance models.
* (SM):
    * Worth noting that our governance document so far was mostly a copy-paste of OpenEXR.
* (JS):
    * OpenTimelineIO does list company names, and 3 out of 4 work for Pixar.
* (SM):
    * Yeah, so maybe we should look at that in case it matters to us.
* (JCM):
    * Also we should just loop in John Metric and see if he has any wise advice for us.
* (ZL):
    * For several of the OpenColorIO meetings, the minutes are posted on confluence and anyone that attends has their name or avatar has the company name mentioned.
* (JCM):
    * The other TSC meetings that I attend, they also have this.
    * The TAC lists peoples company names in minutes.
* (SM):
    * We'll ask John.
    * I think that was the only real contentious issue on the Governance Doc, if anyone has any more specific thoughts, just comb through it for a minute and if you see anything you want to highlight, feel free to do so, let us know, we'll take that feedback under consideration.
    * Was that it for ASWF-directly-related-tasks for now, or do you want to move on for now?
* (JCM):
    * Nothing else.

### Next Release
* (SM):
    * Next item is about planning the next release.
    * I was hoping Brendan or someone else would be here for this too.
    * Biggest item and useful to have people around for as well is:
    * One of the things we want to do is identify PRs to go into the next release.
    * Anecdotally, one of the bigger issues and bigger pain points that people have been putting a lot of effort into has been related to the Windows pathing stuff. I haven't gotten to follow up on those PRs, so I'm a little out of date on that, but, aside from those, are there any PRs that anyone wants to flag as "Hey it would be really good if we got this into the first post-ASWF release"?
* (JCM):
    * I put together a small list of PRs that are just small improvements, documentation changes, or minor fixes, so these would be easy wins.
    * If you have any that you think is a quick and easy merge, let us know.
    * When I built this list, I just went through the PRs for ones I thought would be good.
* (SM):
    * Brendan and Allan had a PR they were thinking about including for their release, do we have that one handy or ready?
    * That was a side conversation between them so we'll have to get that from them, but that might be a good one.
* (JCM):
    * I think I merged it. I'll check.
* (SM):
    * Sounds good.
* (JCM):
    * Yeah this one will need some conversation.
* (SM):
    * Would it be worth doing all-non-pathing things as the first release, and we'll see where the pathing thing is after that?
* (JCM):
    * Yes.
    * What I was thinking of is basically do the release without this one, at some point we have to cut these things off and do a release.
    * Take some time after that to review it, present it the work in the next TSC meeting, which would make the discussion a bit easier.
    * We know it's a big one and important, and we have to get it to the finish line.
* (SE):
    * I'm okay with that.
    * Basically I'm trying to finish up what we have now, and we've been sort of deploying test versions locally.
    * We deploy whatever version internally and we continue using beta versions while we wait for an official release.
    * Maybe Jonas wants to add something to that.
    * I'm personally okay with it as long as we do eventually get eyes on it, once I finish everything out.
* (SM):
    * As long as we get it in eventually so you're not maintaining a fork internally forever.
* (SE):
    * Yeah.
* (JCM):
    * I changed your PR from Ready for Review to Draft, so one thing that would help is, tell us when you're done or what kind of testing you're doing. I see new commits coming in and not sure if it's finished or not. So if you push new stuff, just keep us updated on the status, that will really help us to review it.
* (SE):
    * Perfectly fine with me.
* (SM):
    * JC, you mentioned that it would be good to assign some reviewers to some Pull Requests
* (JCM):
    * Those are the ones I linked, yeah.
    * Also I found the the PR I thought I merged, but it's still there.
* (SM):
    * Sounds like four or five could all go out.
* (JCM):
    * All pretty simple. We have the list there and someone just has to go through it.
    * Some of them are stuck because they were made with the the old Codeowners file and really require Allan's approval.
* (SM):
    * Let's not backwards yet to fix all of those because I'm probably going to do the master to main branch switch "soon", which, when PRs get retargeted, it might trigger a lot of emails and might trigger automations like CI as well, may as well let all the spam go to Allan and not all of us. Maybe there's a way to do a bulk edit somewhere in that process.
    * Regardless of whether that's an issue, we'll hold off on that until that switchover happens.
* (JCM):
    * Yeah, that's not a big deal.
* (SM):
    * Does it matter if we do the main to master switch before/after?
* (JS):
    * I really want the change, but these are pretty simple, and the progress of getting a first release out and visibility of that is more important than delaying for the branch switch.
* (ZL):
    * Agree, get momentum going.
* (SM):
    * Just to note, one thing delaying the release is just that we wanted Allan to guide one other person to do the release, that going to be Brendan and Allan, but I don't think they scheduled that yet, and the rest of would attend as much as possible. But so we just need Allan to have enough time to do a code release with someone else, so that if at least one other person can do it, it should open it up for the rest of us to do a release.
    * I think that's it for that topic.
    * Anything else?

### Going through old PRs / branches
* (SM):
    * Who was it that was suggesting this?
* (JCM):
    * Thorsten or Brendan, not sure.
* (SM):
    * (Thorsten just arrived)
    * Good timing Thorsten, we were just getting into the old/stale PRs/issues agenda item.
    * We just got through the planning-next-release-topics and on to this now.
    * Maybe you want to weigh in on the approach to take or things of that nature.
* (TK):
    * Definitely agree there is a lot of value in getting rid of stale things.
    * Not sure if I put it in the issue or not, but excess branches get in my way, there's like 120 of them or so. That would make a lot of sense. We do have a bunch of stale PRs.
* (SM):
    * If at least for branches, there's probably only like 3-5 branches anywhere on the rez repo itself that are of any interest to anyone for any reason, probably for those people, they probably know what those are, like for example maybe the attempt at C++ ing the version module for example, most of those would be easy to identify, have the TSC, Allan, any community people flag any branch to keep for a month or whatever, if it doesn't come up by then, ...?
* (TK):
    * I think that makes sense.
* (SM):
    * For PRs it's a little tougher, but I think the approach that could work really is, regardless of whether or not a PR gets closed, it could be good to just itemize what all the PRs are that are out there, .. The concern is usually that some PR that's useful is getting closed that's useful. If we just notepad what all the contents was at some point and just shunt it off the side, we're not really going to lose any useful information.
* (TK):
    * I think that makes sense, but not really sure how many PRs are useful to anyone. Has anyone ever done a mongodb repo, and someone puts one up, I would argue that is useful. I'm not sure what the best way is to make sure we go through these and make sure we don't miss any useful ones without having everyone having to agree on them, how to slice and dice them up.
* (SM):
    * Good question.
* (JCM):
    * One thing OpentimelineIO does that is useful is the TSC just gets some private time together, not just TSC meeting time, with a bunch of different things to review or clean up, 30 minutes or so here and there, and are able to go through stuff like this. It's a bit harder when there is a lot of people.
* (SM):
    * There's a more gradual approach to, which is just, "everyone go find a PR that you think is stale", flag it, and we just get 5 or 10 per month or something.
* (JCM):
    * Could make a GH project, have columns in the project. Somewhere to just have the PRs in columns and just move them around.
* (TK):
    * I like that because there is a direct reference to the PRs and branches and whatnot, so you don't just need a list that is disjoint from the repository.
* (SM):
    * Might want to run by Brendan and Allan for full consensus but I don't think they will disagree.
* (JCM):
    * It's easier with PRs because even if you close it, it will just stay there. Can still see changed files on the Pull Request itself. With branches, if you delete the branch, and nobody has a backup, it's gone.
* (SM):
    * That makes sense.
* (TK):
    * I would vote to have a safety somewhere, local backup or whatever.
* (JS):
    * Clarification: We're talking about 18 branches and 46 PRs, those are the numbers we're talking?
* (TK):
    * Looking at 129 branches currently.
* (JS):
    * But the overwhelming majority of those are merged, right?
    * Only 18 of those that are stale and not merged.
* (TK):
    * Things like the wheel branch, nine years old, etc.
* (JS):
    * Yes, but the unmerged branches is a lot less, just so this doesn't feel as daunting. 18 branches is a lot easier to get through than 118.
* (SM):
    * Yup, that makes sense, that's a lot less work.
    * Do we even have the option set to delete branches that are merged, or is that at tickbox we have to turn on?
* (JS):
    * Yeah, only the owner who can see that.
* (SM):
    * Maybe time to flick that one on.
* (JCM):
    * Also to set it so TSC members have access to the repository settings for things like that. More than just for moderation.
* (SM):
    * Makes sense.
    * Think that covers that topic, we know what to do next.
    * That was all the new/ASWF agenda items that the TSC added to make community engagement easier.
    * From here, it's back to old-agenda types of stuff.
    * The only current non-recurring agenda item/topic is on the Release stategy/workflow.

### Release Workflow
* (SM):
    * There was a big github issue / discussion pre-TSC about Release workflows up and downs, and it might be good to talk out some of those use-cases and such. Doesn't have to be talked about today but wanted to bring it up in case there were any strong community opinions.
    * As everyone knows, the current strategy is relatively simple, linear, uncomplicated. No forked release branches with cherrypicked patches, just a simple "next feature / patch uptick", everything just goes to the tip of master/main and that's it.
    * Some people may want more of a scheduled/segmented approach, pros/cons, etc.
* (JCM):
    * Linked the issue
    * Looks like a split; We agree to some extent that the way rez was released before was not the most community-oriented way of doing it, but some people wanted to release a bit less often with more features into it, it becomes a little bit easier to know which feature or bug is in which version.
    * There is also the other side where the releases could be organized, should we use release branches, branch naming, and these kinds of things.
    * Not necessarily conflicting, but focusing on different things.
* (TK):
    * There was a bit of a difference of opinion about how, on the one hand, less frequent releases means you're updating a lot of things at once, and that might mean you have to roll back because one thing doesn't work for you, whereas with many releases, I can pick more granularly which to be on.
    * I don't have a strong opinion on that, I just think we should decide for one and go for it, and focus more on getting PRs done and releases out as more important, than how many are in each release.
* (SM):
    * Part of the discussion is a bit moot when we haven't released once since the ASWF happened.
    * Maybe we reserve more of this discussion until we've gotten our release cadence to not be a zero-div error.
    * Once we have at least some kind of cadence and a strategy will arrive more out of that.
    * Release conflicts were never a thing because it was only Allan, for example, maybe now it's different.
    * So I guess table it and come back in 3-6 months.
* (JCM):
    * We could take an action-item to document the different issues, pros/cons of each solution, make a big summary, that will be more digestible for a future vote.
    * I personally think that the release-process and schedule will become the natural thing, because we're not going to release things without the agreement of the others.
* (TK):
    * Once we get things going, we'll get a sense of if releases are too big or too small.
    * Since it was only Allan before, I don't know if we know the implications this will have for other studio setups.
* (JCM):
    * The noise ratio is a nice thing. If the community could give feedback on their perception of how they saw the releases before; Were you subscribing to github before or watching something else, and did you feel like it was too many or not enough? That could help the group. Since we're now ASWf it's important to better communicate when we release stuff and once in awhile when we get big features released, we might want to get posts up, etc.
* (JS):
    * I know I made a comment on that PR about preferring fewer over scattered / micro releases, but really in the end is just more regular releases. Even if it was daily but I knew it was daily, I could work around that. The mindset will change with the change in ownership, so having more regular schedule will be good. That will be the most important thing to me. Regular pacing the most beneficial.
* (SM):
    * Having some consistency. There were times when Allan would release 4-5 releases/patches, silence for awhile, another flurry of activity. Which is kind of where we are now, we can extricate raise from being purely a limitation of Allan's time and energy, so hopefully we can achieve that consistency. So in your mind, what is the right kind of cadence, if there is any answer; Is there an idea of that is not enough or that is way too much? Is there a sliding scale? A year, I think we can all agree, is too little, and daily is too much, so there's a sweet spot in there somewhere.
    * I feel that two-weeks to a month is the cadence that we now communicate on, so..?
* (JS):
    * Knowing that there is some offset of "issues brought up, PRs approved, a week later or whatever, ..." Giving some clarity to a larger community for when things will move is good.
* (SM):
    * Like, for example, this TSC is the third thursday of every month, so the the TSCs weekend is just a couple days away, so maybe if some PR gets brought up, it's only a couple days until the TSC can hopefully look things over.
* (JS):
    * Responding to Zach in chat, about calendar-versioning, .. I don't personally like that, partly philosophically that a lot of our software does just general semantic versinioning, but also that it locks us into certain limitations in my opinion.
* (JCM):
    * There was a comment about people asking for stuff to be released. It's actually a good habit for the community. If the user that created the PR asks for it to be released because they need it, .. creating activity on the pull request is going to help us get things moving. Personally when I see Pull Requests and I comment on it, and no answer in months, I have no incentive to push on it, etc.
* (SM):
    * Focusong things that people actually need and not just dangling when someone lost interest or moved on.
* (JCM):
    * Right now what is important is just getting stuff done and released, like the Windows issues because of how much noise it makes, etc.
* (SM):
    * Thank you for diving on your sword on that Sam.
* (JCM):
    * It's a process of us engaging in those PRs but also the community engaging with us.
* (TK):
    * I would like +1 on monthly releases. It kind of feels manageable in that we do actually get some PRs done. If we were weekly we probably wouldn't pull off things in time for releases. Monthly seems to be a cadence that works for quite big releases, like VSCode does a monthly main release, then patches when things break shortly after. I really like the idea of aligning it with the TSC, so that we can have a short discussion about it, no extra meetings or discussions.
* (ZL):
    * It's a good opportunity to ask people to review things too, if it's pending.
* (SM):
    * Not a bad chance to, if we, the TSC need help from the community to further review, to ask people to consider testing it internally, things like that might be a good way to have the community engagement work.
* (JCM):
    * What I like some OTIO TSCs, they block like 10 minutes, where they go through the new issues and PRs in the repo and invite the issue authors and PR authors to the meeting so they can speak themselves, so they can say why that have that problem, and it forces us to engage since it's live, and get opinions from everyone who showed up.
* (SM):
    * Two minutes left, any closing comments.
    * Last minute calls for action or assistance on Pull Requests, other than what JC highlighted earlier.
    * Thanks everyone for showing up, hopefully we'll see you next time, and hopefully we'll have a release soon.

### Wrapping
* (Signoffs)
