# Rez TSC Meeting Notes - 2022-12-15

## Attendance

* Host: Allan Johns
* Secretary: Stephen Mackenzie
* TSC Attendees:
    * [x] Allan Johns - NVIDIA
    * [x] Brendan Abel - Walt-Disney Imagineering
    * [x] Jean-Christophe Morin - Freelance
    * [x] Stephen Mackenzie - NVIDIA
    * [x] Thorsten Kaufmann - Mackevision / Accenture
* Other Attendees:
    * [x] Jason Scott
    * [x] Blazej Floch
    * [x] Sergio Rojas
    * [x] Jeff Bradley
    * [x] Joel Pollack
    * [x] ruzette

## Agenda

* Agenda Issue: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1410]
* Dupe Agenda Issue: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1417]
* [x] ASWF
    * [x] Governance model is now in place!
    * [x] Confirm TAC representative delegate.
* [x] Follow ups
    * [x] Shells paths (Sam's PR)
* [x] New rez-pip PoC (https://github.com/JeanChristopheMorinPerso/rez-pip/tree/poc)
* [ ] Deadline?

* TSC Updates
* Updates / Follow-up on Windows Pathing work
* Discussion on "provides" feature (Thorsten)
* (Recurring Items): :
    * Open Q&A
        * What are your pain points?
        * Where do you most want to see effort put into the project currently?
        * How do we add the most value (and drive further adoption) with the least effort?
    * Discuss prioritization of efforts, eg:
        * ASWF matters (finalizing governance.md etc);
        * Identifying and triaging quality of life improvements / low hanging fruit;
        * Triaging long-standing PRs;
        * Planning/implementation of longer term features


## Short Version / Decisions / Discussions / Action Items / Important Links

* Decisions:
    * N/A
* Discussions:
    * Pre-agenda chatter
    * ASWF Updates
    * Windows Shell Pathing followups
    * JC's rez-pip replacement prototype
    * Summary
    * Happy holidays
* Action Items:
    * None
* Links:
    * (JCM's rez-pip POC)[https://github.com/JeanChristopheMorinPerso/rez-pip/tree/poc]
    * (Plugin loading mechanism PR)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1040]
    * (S3 repo + mongodb PR)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1380]
    * (Previous iteration)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/205]

## Details

### Pre-agenda chatter
* (AJ):
    * JC said he's got a rez-pip integration?
* (SM):
    * Yeah it looks not really refined but he's trying to do something new with it
    * He'll give a demo when he's here
* (AJ):
    * Anything we can do to remove some complexity in that area
* (SM):
    * More options are good
* (AJ):
    * Totally makes sense to split it into a different project later on
* (SM):
    * Might make sense to split rez-gui too
* (AJ):
    * Yes
* (SM):
    * No one has touched it since the py3 fork
    * There's a couple PyQt ish issues that haven't been fixed either
* (AJ):
    * Longer term a web-ui route might make sense as well
    * When I get time to do anything on rez again, still a lot of big-ticket things to do
    * I think pushing on the CPP implementation of the version module would be nice
    * Would get us a decent speed increase
* (SM):
    * We had someone looking at this from the rust point, but that fizzled?
* (AJ):
    * Fizzled out
    * Work did already start on the CPP port as well
    * Seems to me that either are valid and make sense
    * Just know less about the rust aspect
* (SM):
    * There's also the long term concept of rez rust bindings
    * other ASWF VFX stuff have been tinkering with rust bindings,
    * could make sense to get inroads just to be connected and know what's going on
    * Filling the space a little bit:
    * Last few TAC meetings I've been listening in
    * Every week there's a new project doing their yearly project update
    * Rez turn in march, not that long from now
    * It's just meant to be a status update, where we are, how things are going, goals, etc
    * Not super formal and providing insight into things about the project
    * I am starting to itemize the things we want to put into it
    * I can start assembling some basic slides so that in march it's not a total surprise
* (AJ):
    * We're all busy and it can translate it into not a lot of movement into major things
    * Wonder if there is something we can structure that would help push on certain things we want to get done
    * as a coordinated effort. Like we pick something to try to make happen this quarter or something.
    * Easily 5 or 6 major points that could be moving the project in a significant direction.
    * Anything we can do to move things would be good.
* (SM):
    * Now that we got the governance sorted that's kind of the next big thing right
    * There's kind of two avenues of movement, one is moving the projects tech goals
    * The other is moving forward the ASWF meter, all the incubation phase tickboxes
    * It's not all different but in some ways it is.
    * Where do we want to focus on...
* (AJ):
    * True of general development efforts as well. maintenance/QoL, but still need to work towards longer-term goals
* (SM):
    * 4 TSC members present now, let's get started


### ASWF Updates
* (SM):
    * Governance model is merged
    * Doesn't mean we've finished all our ASWF stuff, there's plenty left to do, but that's progress.
    * I'm volunteering to be a TAC rep for rez since we want Allan still to chair but since he can't really deal with the meeting time and such.
    * That way I can keep a pulse on things there for the project and bring things back to the group as necessary while keeping Allan as the chair.
    * I'll back off from that if it's too much for me.

### Windows Shell Pathing followups
* (SM) :
    * Any followups on Sams PR?
* (JCM):
    * I was just hoping Sam would show up, but since he's not here, we'll postpone to the next one.
    * He pushed 6-7 new commits but I didn't review them yet since I asked for it to be changed to Review state
    * Wanted to ask if he's expecting to push more, no answer yet.
* (SM):
    * Worth someone taking time and looking closer or just ping him and ask?
* (JCM):
    * He pushed quite a few commits in the past 2-3 commits so I don't know if he's going to push more
    * But I guess we could start reviewing since the last commits were pretty separate with 1 to 1 bulletpoints
    * It probably wouldn't be too bad
* (SM):
    * I can also send him a note and ask if he's planning to push more soon or whatever.
    * Let's just make sure nothing we're doing is slowing things down on that.

### JC's rez-pip replacement prototype
* (SM):
    * Next thing we have is your item, if you want to give a demo
* (JCM):
    * Yes, not a huge deal but I wanted to show, it's super simple, but wanted to say I started that work
    * It's more experimental than anything else, really just exploring ideas
* (SM):
    * Ground-up explanation?
* (JCM):
    * Yup, let me try to share.
    * (Demo)
    * Experimenting with a new rez-pip to fix the issues we have
    * And something I want to bring to the project since it's one of the areas I know
    * I have some notes.md here to explain the rough idea
    * Only solving one or two problems right now
        * Like the bootstrapping: Which pip to use, where it's installed, etc
        * Also trying to solve the shebang console entrypoint scripts
            * Since pip bakes the full pythonpath inside it
            * And since we can't tell pip not to do that
            * We don't really have a normal scenario so we have to use other ways
    * One of the ideas is to use separate tooling to not have to handle things directly with pip
    * Like for example (installer)[pypi.org/projects/installer] project
    * It's not yet used by pip, but eventually pip will be using this
    * That allows us to install wheels (only knows about wheels)
    * Can give it where to install a wheel, how to control the console scripts
    * The installation is handled by the front end, so we can hook up custom logic for installing the scripts
    * Which is pretty neat
    * To basically fix the bootstrapping problem:
        * recently pip started to promote "standalone pip",
        * basically a zip-app that pip allows importing packages that are just a zip file
        * Using that principle to have an external or non-installed pip, you can just put it wherever you want
        * Solves a couple of problems:
            * Like the whole logic of how to find pip, which rez package it is, which version it is
            * We kind of implicitly support multiple pip versions against multiple python versions
            * And those can have different behavior
            * We also support pip being installed in the interpreter itself
            * Some third way as well, but basically there a lot of ways to go, so a lot of chance for user error
            * Bundled zip app directly with the tool or downloaded directly would solve some of these issues
    * Unfortunately the installer project only supports wheels so far, doesn't do resolves
    * So you need the wheels already downloaded on your machine
    * To solve that problem:
        * pip project decided to add new flags to their CLI, namely..
        * The `--report` flag
        * You need a pretty long CLI to get it, but you get a JSON with the full resolve
        * Using dryrun, you don't need to download anything, but gives you full wheel path with hash, metadata, etc
        * From there we can download the wheels, use installer to install the wheels locally, then use functions we have in rez
        * To handle conversion for python version and requirements to convert the pip package to a rez package
    * Any questions so far?
* (AJ):
    * No, .. Correct me if I'm wrong but seems like much the same approach so far, 
    * But I really like that it's based around a singular pip instance
    * That's always been a point of confusion unsurprisingly and many flavors of bugs
* (JCM):
    * Yes, it's pretty similar, the logic we have to convert python version to rez version and requirements to rez requirements,
    * Although that logic needs some love, it's still pretty good, not that far away from a good solution
    * We just need some time to look at the corner cases
* (AJ):
    * One of the more challenging parts is in constructing the variants in some logical way to the package in particular, extras and such
    * Haven't touched this stuff for ages but I recall some of the edge cases
* (JCM):
    * It's still pretty good but we just need to work it a bit
    * We have a good base / starting point
    * That's basically the gist of what I've been working on
    * It's just a weekend of work so far, wanted to try to work it out
* (AJ):
    * Do you wanna talk about the shebang aspect or just do a demo?
* (JCM):
    * There's still some work to do around it because the installer library is pretty young and not yet used by pip
    * They don't support every use case yet
    * Basically I would need to duplicate stuff
    * The hard part would be the windows one because you need an executable instead of just the python script
    * That is always a little bit more painful
* (TK):
    * A remark about the shebang part
    * I just remembered that week that Christian Kornick has a workaround in-place for the shebang stuff
    * There is nowadays a new command line parameter that you can set which maker-executable which will use basically a specific py executable for the shims
    * You can use that just to set it to just "python.exe" which would just pick whatever is first in the environment
    * Might be an option or not
    * I will gather the links he sent me back then
    * I am not sure if it's an env-var or CLI switch, but it's either of the two and he had an upstream PR which was denied to turn it into the other
    * I can gather the links after the meeting
* (JCM):
    * Not attached to my solution at all but it was a fun one to try
    * If there is an even easier way to fix the shebang thing, I am all for it
* (TK):
    * I like the dry-run step and getting the information up front without downloading
    * Being able to skip packages you already have variants for would be really nice
    * Especially if you are releasing the same things over and over again
* (JCM):
    * It's not something my little thing supports yet but it would
    * There's one side-effect which is we can download the wheels in parallel but it's still better
    * We can download all the wheels at the same time and it's a bit faster than pip
    * The pyside ones are pretty big for example
    * For now we can't install pyside because the installer library doesn't like if one of the target directory exists
    * There's some init file in each of two separate packages that breaks it
    * (crashed out of meeting for a bit)
* (SM):
    * Thanks for the demo
* (JCM):
    * So I have something working, doesn't handle a lot of cases yet, still one thing we need to think about is
    * What do we do with the file mapping
    * Basically the pip remaps problem
    * Much prefer to have some kind of directory jail 
* (SM):
    * I know that's an issue with the way the original rez-pip works, but Method's "`rez-pip`" alternate implementation never had this issue,
    * What actually was happening? Certain pip packages installing things that wouldn't honor the prefix/install path?
* (JCM):
    * That can happen, yes
    * Also desktop files and users like it
    * Although packages are not supposed to do that
* (SM):
    * Do you know if that still occurs if someone uses a userspace install with `PYTHONUSERBASE` env var to entirely re-route pips execution?
    * Does it relocate all of those under that root? That's one trick we used to make sure it always dumped stuff "over there" and I never saw it put things elsewhere
* (JCM):
    * Yes there is definitely ones that will put stuff elsewhere. It might only be sdist and maybe not bdist.
    * I have to check if someone can send a list of their remap config so we could have a look at it so we could see what we need to support.
    * Otherwise to test I have to install a bunch of packages and see what doesn't work
    * Not super keen on installing a bunch just for the heck of it
    * Forgot to mention one thing, I don't use setuptools or distutils with this at all
    * That means no more dependency to setuptools because we have one implicit dependency on setuptools currently
    * Small detail that it would only support python3 rez-installs
    * I still have to conform that you could still confirm python-2 wheels from a python3 interpreter but I don't see why it wouldn't work
    * wheel is just a zip file so it should work.
* (AJ):
    * Constraining the install to python3 isn't necessarily a bad thing
* (SM):
    * Given that the outside world has EOL'd py2 since almost 3 years ago, ...
    * It's even hard to install python2 packages because many projects have moved to py3 only wheels etc
    * Especially for a new tool I don't see why we should bother
    * Just called it rez-pip3 or x or whatever, and tell people to "just use the new one"
* (AJ):
    * The API itself can still be compatible as well, even if the installation itself is py3 only
    * It's reasonable to expect that
* (JCM):
    * It would be difficult to do without enforcing that
    * With py3 now there is just way too much to give up on
* (AJ):
    * My vote would be to constrain to py3
    * It'll cut down on maintenance as well
    * Can't really see a downside
* (SM):
    * The number of conversations of rez being only py3 increasing...
    * Maybe we're not there yet, but we're gonna get that point rapidly.
* (JCM):
    * Force all new installs to be python3 even if the API could be py2
    * Especially since rez is supposed to be installed into its own virtual environment
    * It's not difficult these days to install python3 and then rez with py3
* (TK):
    * Gonna have a hard time finding something that is patched and available these days
    * Even there you won't get recent patches or anything
    * Even with macs dropping py2 where the industry has moved on to large extent
* (SM):
    * And nothing prevents you from installing an older version of rez if you need
    * Probably deserves a bigger conversation about how we're doing that going forward
    * But it's going to happen sooner than later
    * So for a new rez-pip I don't see why to not constraint
* (JCM):
    * Have to cut it at some point
    * And if we keep supporting it then people won't switch
* (AJ):
    * Perhaps it makes sense to put in a simple PR that adds a python-3 installation constraint soon
    * If there are any issues we'll get tickets related to it
    * Just something in the installer.py that has no, this has to be python-3
* (JCM):
    * One thing we have to figure out with the rez-pip thing is about externalizing the tools, like the command plugin type or something
    * It's not yet there entirely meaning the rez-plugin way of doing things
* (AJ):
    * I thought that boiled down to just command and extensions, but effectively just an entrypoing for installing the python packaging to rez own virtualenv
    * With a bit of sugar
* (JCM):
    * Don't you have to set an env var to point it to where the plugin is, like where discovery is with normal python entrypoints
* (AJ):
    * Yeah, can't remember that part of it, but don't think it'll be too far away from what we need
    * But we do need a rez command itself to install an extension
* (JCM):
    * If we still have to set an env var then the command would just do a pip install and wouldn't do much more
    * You'd still need someone to set it, where if we used entrypoints normally, we can just pip install the plugins and it would just work
* (TK):
    * I remember bringing that up in the discussion and David brought up some very good reasons why we can't use plain entrypoints but I forgot why
* (JCM):
    * Probably the slowness with setuptools because it's super slow with entrypoints
    * There is a hack in OTIO exactly for that
    * They support plugins and by default uses entrypoints but a switch to use env var instead exactly because of that
    * In big site-packages installations on a file share it will take forever for python to start
* (AJ):
    * Exact mechanism aside, the intent was to have sort of rez-install-extension command to use, effectively
    * It would only be a thin wrapper ultimately
    * `rez-install-extension rez-pip3` for example
* (JCM):
    * Was thinking about a different name like pip2rez which would be the tool name, it wouldn't feel native
* (AJ):
    * Starts getting a bit chicken and egg, there's a good chance the tool wants to use the rez api etc
    * How's it going to use the rez api without being a rez package itself, ...?
* (SM):
    * There's a good chance that due to future rez-pip style stuff, you may need the tool itself to use diff py versions in their rez packages
    * Maybe pip with 3.8 has a different behavior than with 3.11
* (BA):
    * Maybe these tools should be designed to go through the command line api
    * We wouldn't have these problems if it's just going through the command line
* (AJ):
    * Probably benefit from reducing the potential combinations of things happening
    * If we supported the idea of completely external tools that integrate with rez, as well as ones that install into it's venv, 
    * We get two axes of problems for "extensions" lets call them
* (BA):
    * Especially for non-python tooling
* (TK):
    * I pasted into the chat the PR, the PR parses syspath and loads everything that has a rez plugin submodule
* (AJ):
    * I recall that now
    * That's how it's finding things in the installation venv that are regarded as extensions
* (JCM):
    * You talked about using the rez api - Right now I do use it to get the 
    * I don't try to resolve the python version because it would need to check and use the found ones in rez packages
    * But I do use it to get default release paths and such
    * I also use it to get the version and requirement classes
    * We're not supposed to import these from outside the rez repo / library
    * We'll have to also figure out what we also do with the vendored version package in the rez project
    * It's not super clean to import from inside rez
* (AJ):
    * That old chestnut
    * version itself is a weird edgecase because it shouldn't be in vendor and was just put there years ago
* (JCM):
    * If we just move it under the rez directory, or we externalize it
* (AJ):
    * That was the initial idea, to externalize it
* (JCM):
    * We're in a special case right now.
    * To handle standard python packaging versions there's the `packaging` package, so even if we externalized it, how much work would it be
    * And we'd still have a dependency in rez.
    * Also makes it difficult since the version of Version package and the version of rez
* (AJ):
    * Not really worth it, it's super stable and years without changes
* (SM):
    * It makes sense to make that call before any compiled stuff gets completed on it
* (AJ):
    * Yep
* (JCM):
    * A couple discussions to have there
    * If we rewrite it into something else that's going to be an interesting problem to solve

### Summary

* (SM):
    * Close to time-up - Good time to ask if there are any sidebars to have that we forgot about? followups on anything?
    * Discussion to have next; Thorstens `provides` topic
* (TK):
    * Yeah it comes up in issues a lot
    * Very high priority for us
* (AJ):
    * I have an initial branch still where I started work on it
    * The one thing I'd say about it;
    * Keep the concept general enough that it makes sense for a package to say that it provides a package,
    * But also via use of provides syntax in the implicits list to give users a way to say the system itself provides something
    * Hoping it can be approached in a way that there's no difference between those two use-cases
* (SM):
    * Interesting to note that several top items are getting attention:
        * provides, rez-pip, Windows Pathing, s3 repositories, ...
* (AJ):
    * Modularity discussion callback
    * Should be possible to do it properly
    * Concept of a package artifact repository
    * Just to think about how those two relate, getting that right will be where the work is
    * Should be possible to mix and match a DB repository backed by an artifactory repository, etc
* (SM):
    * Not just for s3 as well
* (AJ):
    * Objects should be hashed or something as well in a way that retains id across repositories, caching opportunities etc
* (SM):
    * Interesting question about how you might interop FS, S3, DB repositories, have to be interchangeable
* (AJ):
    * Almost talking about caching at the same time, important to figure out how that all works together
    * Chaining artifact repositories maybe

### Happy holidays
* (AJ):
    * Hopefully 2023 is better!
