# Rez TSC Meeting Notes - 2023-05-18

:movie_camera::scroll: Recording: https://zoom.us/rec/share/auONCss75gBC0Nh5fFcK04qUaMstjbhkf-E0cg2sMVDaQxjG7xptR0AWU5cRiV4-.-RMhoSRIfSOfz7om

## Attendance

* Host: Jean-Christophe Morin
* Secretary: Jean-Christophe Morin
* TSC Attendees:
  * [ ] Allan Johns - NVIDIA
  * [ ] Brendan Abel - Walt-Disney Imagineering
  * [x] Jean-Christophe Morin - Freelance
  * [x] Stephen Mackenzie - NVIDIA
  * [ ] Thorsten Kaufmann - Mackevision / Accenture
* Other Attendees:
  * Barry Dempsey
  * Jason Scott (Pitch Black)
  * Joel Pollack (Dreamworks)
  * Jonas Avrin (Encore VFX)

## Agenda
* Agenda Issue: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1492
* ASWF
  * Review of previous action items
  * Adjustments to governance document
* General items
  * Bugfix PR for `@include` decorator: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1485
  * Progress on Windows Gitbash/shells
  * PR for dropping support for Python <3.7 in the installer: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1469
  * Proposal to move `rez.vendor.version` to `rez.version`: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/discussions/1484


## Short Version / Decisions / Action Items / Important Links

* Action Items:
  * Stephen Mackenzie: Contact AWS representative on the TAC to see if we can help with Deadline+rez and have a talk with them.
  * Jean-Christophe Morin: Fix copyright check in https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1485 and approve.
  * JeanChristophe Morin: Review recent commits in https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1475.

## Details

### ASWF

#### Review of previous action items

* [x] @maxnbk: Check with LF Marketing to see what kind of town hall format we can use. Can we do a real town hall with our community and do a Q&A and interactive polls?
  * Reached out and they say we can do live polls.
  * They suggested a tool. @maxnbk Will play a little bit with it and will see if it fits out needs and what we can do with it.
  * @maxnbk: If it works, I'll see if I can come up with questions that we want to ask.
  * JC: Were we late to answer or are we too late to plan something?
    * Stephen: No, we are not too late.
  * Stephen: We will still need to spend time to plan the thing, etc.

* [ ] @maxnbk: Reach out to Deadline devs.
  * Stephen: Did not have time unfortunately and also didn't hear from them since last time we talked to them.
  * Jason: Didn't talk to them recently.
  * JC: Do we have someone from the community that is in talk with them?
  * Silence...
  * Stephen: How about we start an email thread with a couple of people in CC?
  * JC: It would probably be better to go trhough the AWS's representative on ASWF TAC. From what I understand,
    the representative are there to help make the liason between the projects and the member companies.

### General items

#### Bugfix PR for `@include` decorator

* https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1485
* JC: This is a great fix. It's simple and even has tests!
* Stephen: What is the `@include` decorator?
* JC: It's a way to share code across packages. The code isn't really shared after it's installed though.
  The decorator copies files into the intalled package to ensure that the packages stay immutable.
* https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/wiki/Package-Definition-Guide#sharing-code-across-installed-packages
* JC: I don't think it's used much since it has downsides, but it's there and there was a bug.
* Stephen: It looks legit to me. Makes sense to access the PR.

#### Progress on Windows Gitbash/shells

* https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1475
* JC: Just wanted to highlight the nice progress that Jonas is doing! We really appreciate all the work he is doing
  and we are happy that someone is keeping this alive.
* Jonas: Got approval to work on this at work.
* Jonas: Recent changes are mainly cleanup tasks. Still work to do to address the PR comments.
* Jonas: We are running this PR in production in multiple different environment.
* JC: Are you blocked on something or do you need help from us or anything from us?
  * Jonas: No, everything is good.
* JC: Will review the recent changes soon.

#### PR for dropping support for Python <3.7 in the installer

* https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1469
* JC: We talked about it in the last meeting. Just wanted to remind everyone that the PR is there and needs reviews.
* JC: If someone has any concerns, please speak. All ideas and opinions are welcomed.
* JC: In the case where you agree with this change, feel free to also let us know :)
* Stephen: Still makes sense to me. We'll just need to communicate the change loudly. Potentially in the README, etc.
* JC: Yep. The next point on the agenda will touch this subject a little bit (communication of breaking changes).

#### Proposal to move `rez.vendor.version` to `rez.version`

* https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/discussions/1484
* JC: I created a proposal to move the `version` modules outside `rez.vendor`.
* JC: Related to my work on the new rez-pip. Importing `rez.vendor.version` outside a rez feels wrong and bad.
* JC: The initial goal was to create a generic versioning library that could be uploaded to PyPI separately
      from rez. But it was never done and there is now a multitude of version libraries on PyPI.
  * It doesn't make sense anymore.
  * It's also pretty rez specific in some ways.
* JC: I would propose to bump the major version fo rez to 3 to clearly indicate the change.
  * We could also include the change to the installer (dropping py <3.7).
  * And we could also remove some things that were deprecated a long time ago. Like `rez.package_maker__`, `rez.package_resources_` and `rez.packages_`.
* JC: We initially wanted to change the major version for much bigger changes, but it's a good occasion to do it now.
* We are at version 2.120 something...
* Stephen: What will happen if in 6 months we need to bump the major version again?
* JC: Well, we'll do it. Versions exists to express things and we are free to bump whenever we feel liek it needs to be bumped.
* Stephen: I like the idea. We could also grep the code to see if we could remove some other deprecated stuff.
* JC: If anyone has comments, please leave them on the discussion.

#### Other unplanned items

* Stephen: Still planning to look at https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1438
* Stephen: Would like to take a closer look at the release process to simplify it a bit before we do our next release.
* Stephen: The wg-ci project review yesterday made me realize that we should look into how we could help the other projects.
  * JC: I think some projects had interests into having a `package.py` in their repo. It could server as examples (which we don't have).
  * Jason: It could be better to work on much simpler examples.
  * Stephen: Yeah. SOme of the projects have dependencies, etc. So the package definitions wouldn't be complete...
