# Rez TSC Meeting Notes - 2023-03-16

:movie_camera::scroll: Recording: https://zoom.us/rec/share/Qc_ZLoZZolSnQjkK0YC1y0cCyNsjpASslYViL2RoDVIybnENOthyEvH71RJIEg.4QF6FE1tAaCaagTW

## Attendance

* Host: Jean-Christophe Morin
* Secretary: Jean-Christophe Morin
* TSC Attendees:
  * [ ] Allan Johns - NVIDIA
  * [ ] Brendan Abel - Walt-Disney Imagineering
  * [x] Jean-Christophe Morin - Freelance
  * [x] Stephen Mackenzie - NVIDIA
  * [x] Thorsten Kaufmann - Mackevision / Accenture
* Other Attendees:
  * Erwan Leroy (Crafty Apes)
  * Jason Scott (Pitch Black)
  * Jonas Avrin (Encore VFX)
  * Sergio Rojas
  * Thomas Mansencal (Wētā FX)

## Agenda
* Agenda Issue: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1456
* ASWF
    * Review of previous action items
    * Update on remote repositories and Windows paths in shells.
    * Feedback received during TAC project review.
* General items
    * Environment resolution uses UNC paths with Python 3.10, 3.7 was using mounted network drives. #1438 (if Thomas is present)
    * Bahavior of variants: Unexpected behaviour with variants #1458
    * Custom package.py file name: Custom name of package.py #1459

## Short Version / Decisions / Action Items / Important Links

* Action Items:
  * @AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez-tsc: Post link to project review slides somewhere, with the meetnig notes.
  * @maxnbk: Ask for more details/clarification on https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1459.

## Details

### ASWF

#### Review of previous action items

* [x] TAC project review
* [ ] (partial) @AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez-tsc: Tag stale issues with "TSC Review Stale" tag.
    * Partially done. JC did a first pass at tagging all issues and closing old/duplicate issues. Closed 45 issues.
    * Lots of issues tagged as “bug” that will need further triage with a special tag for the TSC to review them.
* [ ] @instinct-vfx: Create issue & follow-up for discussion on rez context applying issue.
    * Move to next meeting
* [x] @ttrently: Split synchronous package caching into separate PR.
    * PR created: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1452
* [ ] @JeanChristopheMorinPerso: Review Add Artifact Repository #1453.
    * Will do after proposal is done
* [ ] @JeanChristopheMorinPerso: Write a proposal for remote repositories.
    * In progress: https://gist.github.com/JeanChristopheMorinPerso/9a0705d1498378178b53061d90f3b2d4
* [x] Update on remote repositories and Windows paths in shells.
    * Remote repositories:
        * Started to write a proposal: https://gist.github.com/JeanChristopheMorinPerso/9a0705d1498378178b53061d90f3b2d4
        * Reaching out to possible interested parties to get feedback, ideas, etc.
        * Thomas Trently still interested in continuing to work on this and help us.
        * We definitely need participation from the community.
    * Windows shell paths
        * Jonas volunteered to pick up where Sam left. JC had a chat with him to see what needs to be done.

#### Feedback received during TAC project review.

* Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lmJF9o2gfx-6i6yOYRc__CK9T-VyM5Cai8aWBGXjKMA/edit?usp=sharing
* Mentioned Deadline integration.
* Talked about our current issues and top requested features
* Discussed how much rez is used but we don't receive a lot of contributions.
* Feedback was good
* Questions about cloud repositories and security around them
* We should post the slides and the link to the meeting notes somewhere accessible to everyone.
* How do we get companies to advertise that they use rez? We struggle to know how uses rez and which features are they using.
* Jason: What kind of thing should they say or make public? What kind of engagement are we expecting?
* JC: Should we make a Survey?

### General items
#### Environment resolution uses UNC paths with Python 3.10, 3.7 was using mounted network drives. #1438
* https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1438
* @KelSolaar (Thomas Mansencal): Started using rez in 2017 on WIndows (at Weta).
* Very reliant on rez.
* We agree it's a regression. It seems to have been introduced by https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/775 by accident.
* Thorsten: I don’t see any obvious issues with using `os.path.abspath`.
* Replace all calls to os.path.realpath with https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/blob/89686626c37e68391c61a5e7a55c9490984f933b/src/rez/utils/filesystem.py#L509 and replace with `os.path.abspath`.
* Most TSC memebers agree it's a major issue. But Who has time to fix it?
* Stephen might take a look.
* Stephen: having some weird issues with prepend in powershell (related to https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1434).

### Behavior of variants: Unexpected behaviour with variants #1458

Not discussed because there was not enough time left.

### Custom `package.py` file name: Custom name of package.py #1459

* https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1459
* Stephen: Think there is valid use cases. We might want to just try it and see what breaks.
* Similar to https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/299.
* Thorsten: Concerned about the kind of doors it opens. Others agree that it could be a dangerous route to go.
* Thorsten: If we do that, we should clearly document what it’s meant for so that it’s not misused.
* We should invite Larry to tell us more about his use case. It’s still a little bit unclear what he’s trying to achieve.
* Stephen will ask for more details. We''l definitively need more info to know if it's something we want to do or not.
