# Rez TSC Meeting Notes - 2022-01-19

## Attendance

* Host: Allan Johns
* Secretary: Stephen Mackenzie
* TSC Attendees:
    * [x] Allan Johns - NVIDIA
    * [x] Brendan Abel - Walt-Disney Imagineering
    * [x] Jean-Christophe Morin - Freelance
    * [x] Stephen Mackenzie - NVIDIA
    * [x] Thorsten Kaufmann - Mackevision / Accenture
* Other Attendees:
    * [x] Jason Scott
    * [x] Sergio Rojas
    * [x] Jeff Bradley
    * [x] Samuel Eichner
    * [x] Brandon Tebedo
    * [x] David Aguilar

## Agenda

* Agenda Issue: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1432]
* [x] ASWF / TSC news
    * [x] Issue grooming
    * [x] Branch cleanup
    * [x] Note of approval of deleting merged branches. Assignee?
    * [x] Note of approval of enabling feature to default to deleting merged branches. Assignee?
    * [x] No news, no major movement or progress, not a surprise
* [x] Discussion on "provides" feature (Thorsten)
* (Recurring Items): 
    * Open Q&A
        * What are your pain points?
        * Where do you most want to see effort put into the project currently?
        * How do we add the most value (and drive further adoption) with the least effort?
    * Discuss prioritization of efforts, eg:
        * ASWF matters (finalizing governance.md etc);
        * Identifying and triaging quality of life improvements / low hanging fruit;
        * Triaging long-standing PRs;
        * Planning/implementation of longer term features

## Short Version / Decisions / Discussions / Action Items / Important Links

* Decisions:
    * [x] Apply "delete merged branches" setting
* Discussions:
    * ASWF Updates
    * Issue grooming / Branch deleting
    * Open Source Forum
    * Deadline Implementation Rez
    * Windows Shell Pathing
    * pip install remap request
    * provides feature / REP-002
    * Applying a resolved context programatically
    * Wrapping
* Action Items:
    * TSC: Tag stale issues with "TSC Review Stale" tag
    * Stephen: Start rez project update slides
    * Anyone: Review and test Windows Shell Pathing PR
    * Anyone: Provide Jean-Christophe with their pip_install_remap config settings
    * Thorsten: Create issue & follow-up for discussion on rez context applying issue
* Links:
    * (Open Source Forum)[https://events.linuxfoundation.org/aswf-open-source-forum/program/cfp/]
    * (pip install remaps config)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/wiki/Configuring-Rez#pip_install_remaps]
    * (REP-002)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/673]
    * (provides issue)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1100]
    * (provides branch)[https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/tree/issue_1100-provides]

## Details

### ASWF Updates
* (SM):
    * No major discussion or items really

### Issue grooming / Branch deleting
* (BA):
    * I deleted all the merged branches
    * Not that many left
    * There's a few old ones from Allan, maybe he can look at those
    * There's a ton of issues that are done or really old that just don't matter anymore
* (AJ):
    * I can take a look at them
    * Can you set staleness on them?
* (BA):
    * You can set that for merged branches
* (AJ):
    * I mean issues
* (JCM):
    * There's no status, you can put labels, or put issues into projects, and have statuses in there
    * We could tag them for review and we can just walk through them
* (SM):
    * We agreed to turn on by default the "merged branch defaults" for merged PRs in the future
    * So if no one has done that yet, someone can do that probably by the end of the meeting, since Allan gave us privileges.
* (JCM):
    * And done.
* (SM):
    * Knocking em down!

### Open Source Forum
* (JS):
    * How many of you have been in touch with the TAC?
    * The ASWF has two formal events throughout the year, corresponding around other events
    * Open Source Days co-located with Siggraph wherever Siggraph is
    * And again right after the VES Awards, Open Source Forum
    * 1-day update of all the ASWF projects etc.
    * Was planning to go this year again by virtue of being in the area
    * Allan spoke last year, when we hadn't been put into incubation period yet
    * At that point the TAC had asked all projects to do a 10-15 minute update
    * Wasn't sure what the layout/program/agenda was this year
    * So just checking on that
* (JCM):
    * Stephen has the details
* (SM):
    * I was listening in the past 3-4 TAC meetings
    * It seemed like there wasn't a lot of detail, they were reconsidering how they wanted to format things
    * What projects had done in past years may have been too much of a burden on some projects
    * Carol had been talking and they were kind of glossing over some of the details and I wasn't familiar with it in the past
    * So maybe I missed something, but it seemed like..
    * There was still some pending decision-making on how they wanted it to be handled
    * I wasn't aware of the date
* (JS):
    * Yeah we won't have another TSC meeting before it, or it's the same date as our next one
* (SM):
    * That said, I think what I'll do is reach out to Carol and John and see if they would like anything from us
    * I wouldn't anticipate we'd want to put much together
* (JS):
    * Previous years was kind of a tipping point,
    * They actually felt we had enough projects that having every project present exceeded the amount of time allotted
    * It was overwhelming
    * So that's probably where the differing format is coming from
    * But just coming off of excitement from the first-TSC release, distributed some of the workload from Allan
    * Maybe as a quick highlight
* (JCM):
    * We aren't forced to do anything and they know approximately what they want
    * Three different formats; Lightning talks, Discussions, Session Presentations
    * We can choose anything or nothing, it's not for us, we'll skip this time
    * Flexible because depending on the submissions they'll fill the gaps and figure out what to do
    * We have to decide, the deadline is tomorrow
    * If we are not sure, we can just contact them and tentatively do something but we're not sure yet
    * If we're not sure we just be frank with them
    * We might have something or we might not, not sure yet
* (SM):
    * In a similar vein, the ASWF TAC day for rez to do a project update is in march, coming up very soon.
    * I'm planning on putting something together for
    * But I was going to poll people and just say "hey, is there any information we really feel like ought to get across"
    * Usually projects are highlighting what progress they've made in a year, want to make in the next year, problems, contributors, etc
    * I was going to try to follow that a little bit
    * If anyone has specific things like release cadence or whatever, we can discuss those types of things
    * Feel free to bring it up or DM me directly if you want
    * I don't see much reason/motivation to contribute later.
* (JS):
    * I think I agree with you, with the time frame and focus more on the TAC presentation as more important
* (AJ):
    * Agreed
* (JCM):
    * Someone from the committee can still submit something, like a lightning talk, doesn't just have to be from the projects itself
    * If someone wants to highlight how rez has been implemented or workflow in the studio, anyone can submit
* (SM):
    * Case studies etc

### Deadline Implementation Rez
* (JS): 
    * Deadline announced an implementation in rez
    * Had a couple concerns about their implementations, they heard our feedback and adjusted some things including their docs
    * Was a third piece where they've opened up some internal issue tracking on how they are going to handle package version locking on submission, etc
    * If you want more, happy to give you those
    * And maybe a future talk topic
* (JCM):
    * I invited them already a couple times and it was before Christmas and there was the AWS events stuff which is big conference for them
    * So they were pretty busy and couldn't plan anything more, and after that it was the holidays
    * So maybe our next TSC meeting we could try that
* (JS):
    * I think we were just happy they listened and made adjustments
* (JCM):
    * I gave them a pretty long list of things to fix and they fixed like 98% of what I told them
    * Pretty sure they will be happy to present here, and I told them we'll be super happy for them to come and present to the community
    * I'll take that as an open thing

### Windows Shell Pathing
* (SM):
    * One quick followup, open item, shell pathing
    * Sam, do you want to respond to this at all?
    * Just wondering where we're at if people should be reviewing/testing the stuff you've done, this should be working, look over it, etc
    * Proper testing
    * Or is there more that needs to get done ebfore
* (SE):
    * Yeah, it's ready to go
    * It's being used here on Windows and Linux
* (SM):
    * Alright, we'll see what we can do to make sure it's properly reviewed/tested
* (JCM):
    * I'll take time to review
    * Can't guarantee when, but before the last TSC meeting

### pip install remap request
* (JCM):
    * Requesting to be sent peoples pip install remap configuration settings, DM me or post in slack or whatever
    * If there is anything private just make sure you strip it
    * That would be very helpful

### provides feature / REP-002
* (SM):
    * Long-standing discussion topic to have
    * It is on part of the roadmap for REP-002
    * Someone probably has a link to it
    * One of the pre-reqs for it was ephemerals which I believe has been implemented
    * Although I don't know if there was some deviation or still future work to do
    * I thought there was something missing maybe.
    * Regardless things got to roughly that point but I don't believe they got much further.
    * There are a number of other issues in the way, so I guess the primary concern is..
    * Maybe it would be good if Allan would describe the problem we're trying to solve
    * Then we can discuss how best to push this ball up the hill
* (AJ):
    * Do you mean provides specifically or ephemerals in general?
* (SM):
    * I think Thorsten wanted to talk about provides specifically
    * Although technically REP-002 is about getting to the ability to rez-install
    * And it just happens to be a subset feature of that overall roadmap
    * But there isn't that much more to get to that full REP-002
* (AJ):
    * To start with, ephemerals are just about introducing a concept where you can have a kind of a feature that behaves like a package
    * You may conceptually have some part of a package that may be compatible with some package
    * From that point of view it makes sense to implement the concept of provides based on ephemerals
    * provides is the idea of a package being able to describe the fact that it comes with something embedded inside of itself already
    * Classic example of DCCs shipping with python
    * Situations like that you don't want the resolved environment to pull in a rez python package
    * Because the primary reason for that runtime is to use Maya which has its own.
    * You can extend that concept from packages to the environment itself also, which was the idea
    * You may for example know that your package is in such a way that if you rez-env into an environment,
    * A system installation, python is still visible, hopefully you can describe that the system already provides something as well
    * At least that was the idea, hopefully one of those is not an edge-case
    * So the general under the hood is, packages would use particularly formatted ephemerals to describe that provides relationship
    * This will have the nice side-effect of behavior where if you try to resolve an environment ...
    * ..with two different packages that both claim to provide the same other package but different versions,
    * you correctly get a conflict as part of the resolution process
    * And same for system of course
    * The other thing that seems to slot-in nicely at least in theory,
    * Is that the way that you would describe that your system already provides something, would be to add that ephemeral into the implicits list
    * You can see how that makes sense off the bat and would largely behave the way that we would want it to do also
    * In that again, you correctly get a conflict between the implicit and the ephemeral and some other provides package
    * One thing I hadn't gotten to figure out was what happens if you get a conflict between the provides package and the real package
    * Something literally requires foo-1.2.3 and provides on foo-2.0.0.
* (SM):
    * I recall discussions with Allan at one point on one of the other far-reaching issues
    * What if you are resolving an environment in which both Maya and Nuke have a provides for python
    * and it happens to be the exact same version of python
    * In other words, it's not necssarily a conflict, but how would you choose which one to choose?
* (AJ):
    * Yeah to backtrack briefly, 
    * The issue of a real package conflicting a provides package,
    * That's fine actually, that's just the work that has to be done to the solver to introduce provides as a feature
    * But what you just mentioned is the bigger decision as far as deterministic behavior
    * provides is kind of funny in a sense that it's really dependent on the order of things that happens during a resolve
    * Example, if you resolved an environment without specifying provides or anything, package pulled in python-X, later on, package pulls in a package with python-y, what do you do?
    * Is that a conflict, or what if they overlap? What happens in that case?
    * And again, the issue with multiple packages providing it.
    * I think we can solve those issues, it just has to be easy to reason about and still deterministic
* (SM):
    * Question about it
    * Does it require a paradigm change in how we request something
    * If I have a python package at least 3.5, am I requesting the ephemeral provides package, or the actual package?
* (AJ):
    * Nothing changes for you, you're just requesting as python version as you normally would
    * That's really crucial, no difference whatsoever
    * A package can optionally describe the fact that it was python embedded in itself already, and the rest of the solve should take that
    * The other packages should be unaware of that detail
* (SM):
    * As far as how far we got, we have ephemerals to my understanding
    * Were there any other issues - Do we have a sense of the next step?
    * What really needs solving to get us even one step further?
* (AJ):
    * I have an early branch that started implementing this but I can't remember where I got to
    * I know that I had started on the required solver updates to take this into account
* (SM):
    * That's a starting point - Maybe don't delete that one
* (BA):
    * That REP is a pretty large one that covers a lot of things
    * Maybe it's worth splitting out and hashing this out a little clearer in a separate REP or something?
* (JCM):
    * It would make sense, it's pretty big, difficult to digest
    * I would also like to discuss a little bit more the form of it
    * Like how will the package basically say I provide this package
    * Right now it says like you're gonna add it to the requires section instead of having to know its using ephemerals
    * If someone like wouldn't have to know about it, it's just magical, like you have a new setting in the packages
    * And then you just say provides equals.
* (AJ):
    * The thinking there is to initially, as step one, not necessarily make it pretty or intuitive for developers
    * More just describe it as it's going to work under the hood,
    * For example that would probably mean a particularly formatted ephemeral in your requires list
    * But it would absolutely make sense to formalize that into a better syntax for developers
    * I would expect an additional layer on to the package interface that does add a provides list
    * That's much more intuitive to read
    * But step one was just to keep it completely low-level and obvious to someone who knows how it works under the hood
    * Intention is to make it more intuitive and user-friendly later on
* (JCM):
    * Having it in a separate proposal would allow us to be more detailed around the different stages or milestones
    * Like here is where the resolver part is done and here's the rest, split it more, and people can comment in an easier way
    * Rather than a huge blob like it is now where it's intimidating
* (TK):
    * Where would we put that because we already have the github issue that is a snippet taken from the bigger REP
* (AJ):
    * Yeah good point, is just the issue enough, are we talking about just updating the issue?
* (TK):
    * Would you rather have a discussion post, not sure
* (BA):
    * Looking at the ticket now, there's like one example, but it doesn't really have any new...
    * When you go through a PEP, there's usually like a description of what's going to change, the syntax, something like that
    * I don't know if an issues the best place to put that, but it can be
* (JCM):
    * The REP002 issue is pretty big, it doesn't go into details on everything
    * I guess we can convert that issue into a discussion with more details about what will change and what needs to be taken into account, etc
    * Go over different designs of the UX for how people will use it, it's a feature that a lot of people ask for
    * Details to go over would be good
* (AJ):
    * I think a discussion would be fine, link to the issue from there and start there
    * Start hashing it out
* (JCM):
    * What's nice about discussions is you can have threads where issues are linear
* (AJ):
    * Agreed
* (TK):
    * Makes sense, it would be good if we can all do housekeeping on the discussion so that we're not scattering discussion info
    * We just use the issue for tracking the progress on the actual implementation and feedback on that
* (AJ):
    * Agreed
* (JCM):
    * So new issue, discussion, link to issue from discussion, and then the issue is for the real proposal
    * That makes sense
* (AJ):
    * I can dive back into this - A matter of going back over what I've done before
    * I can put up the initial proposal in the discussion
* (SM):
    * Maybe just peeking back at your branch and trying to figure out what you had done so far?
    * To give someone else a jumping-off point to save on effort
* (AJ):
    * Sounds good
* (JCM):
    * It's 650 commits behind
* (SM):
    * Not too bad /sarcasm
* (AJ):
    * There's pretty minimal actual code change in that branch
* (SM):
    * Was there anything else you wanted to add as far as the discussion went, or you're okay with that for the moment
* (TK):
    * Main goal was to put it on the map and get the discussion going
    * Especially since so many people are asking for it
    * And showing people that we're not as far off as it may seem
* (SM):
    * The provides thing turns up as the number one answer to "how to do this" where there's no such way to do it currently
    * Any amount of attention we can put on it would be a good thing
* (JCM):
    * Once we have it's going to be a major feature
* (AJ):
    * I don't think it's too challenging in the implementation
* (SM):
    * Just one of those things to be careful about

### Applying a resolved context programatically
* (TK):
    * Have a topic I would like to prepare better for the next TSC
    * Applying a resolved context programmatically
    * like calling resolved_context.apply can render the current running python session broken
    * As in you cannot import specific parts of the stdlib anymore
    * I would like to come up with more info/intel, also a test on linux, it's not a windows-specific issue for a change
    * I can make it an issue and get back to it on the next TSC if there's time and we need to discuss it more
* (JCM):
    * It is functionality that is used a lot?
* (TK):
    * No clue whatsoever - I know that people tried using it before here and failed, possibly because of that
    * And then resorted to subprocess.run pwsh to rez and call a CLI, but even if I wanted to in this case, I can't
    * Because it's being run by Qube and I can't control the environment
    * Worked around it by now by making a copy of syspath before an injecting it after applying it after the resolved context
    * Potentially pretty dangerous depending on what's in that context obviously
* (AJ):
    * Applying to the current session has been a ropey concept because you can't guarantee the resolved context has a runtime that matches what rez wants to give you
    * A lot of things can happen in a package command
* (TK):
    * Absolutely, it seems to be an edge case, I'm not sure it's intentional the way it is, because it only happens if python is touched
    * I'd rather have it not break the local session, because it means you try to import and it just fails with modules not existing, and is so obscure
    * I'd rather have it try and fail with a meaningful exception due to mismatched runtime than this
* (AJ):
    * Might overlap with a long running ticket with the idea of having much more control over the management of environment variables and how they behave
    * Classic example being the default behavior of any pathlike env var being reset on first-write because you don't want to rez-env into an environment where syspath has only been added to
    * You wouldn't have visibility to stuff that wasn't resolved and everything can break
* (TK):
    * I think we discussed the possibility of having a tool/switch to let you inspect the order of ops of which package changed variables in which order
* (AJ):
    * Yes, that's one aspect to it, another aspect of it would be to be able to have more control over how they behave
    * You might have PATH remain what it was pre-rez-env-shell except anything in there not set by the resolve gets set to the end, etc
* (TK):
    * That was one of the things that made Marcus do a fork, part of the discussion
    * Went back and forth quite a lot
    * The way that rez handles it is the better default but better control would be good
    * I think that when you use the apply, it doesn't even touches variables, it just modifies syspath in place.
    * Because it's not actually creating a subshell in that process
    * As I said, I can dive in and find where it happens and create a proper issue so we can have a more informed discussion about it
    * I should have made it a ticket right away but it's such a fragile construct and Qube does a lot of things
    * Made a repro case that's just using plain API so there is something to it and just want some feedback
    * That's all

### Wrapping
* (Signoffs)