# Rez TSC Meeting Notes - 2023-04-20

:movie_camera::scroll: Recording: https://zoom.us/rec/share/UNN_CoWHDw7cWK6LrrdTCNgfJkE9TQiN2Ggx_sxkT4YIYeY97U5FmP21bbZCBASD.yuAFpP5zfM1NNW5i

## Attendance

* Host: Jean-Christophe Morin
* Secretary: Jean-Christophe Morin
* TSC Attendees:
  * [ ] Allan Johns - NVIDIA
  * [ ] Brendan Abel - Walt-Disney Imagineering
  * [x] Jean-Christophe Morin - Freelance
  * [x] Stephen Mackenzie - NVIDIA
  * [x] Thorsten Kaufmann - Mackevision / Accenture
* Other Attendees:
  * Edward Whetstone (Brazen Animation)
  * Sergio Rojas

## Agenda
* Agenda Issue: https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/issues/1466
* ASWF
    * Review of previous action items
    * SIGGRAPH
* Office hours

## Short Version / Decisions / Action Items / Important Links

* Action Items:
  * @maxnbk: Check with LF Marketing to see what kind of town hall format we can use. Can we do a real town hall with our community and do a Q&A and interactive polls?
  * @maxnbk: Reach out to Deadline devs.

## Details

### ASWF

#### Review of previous action items

* [x] @AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez-tsc: Post link to project review slides somewhere, with the meetnig notes.
    * Published in https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/tree/master/ASWF/TSC/project-reviews.
* [x] @maxnbk: Ask for more details/clarification on Custom name of package.py #1459.

#### Update employers in GOVERNANCE.md

* Should we amend the governance doc to allow updating members employers without unanimous approval from all members?
* JC, Thorsten and Stephen agree with that.
* We are missing 2 members, so we can't vote...

#### Siggraph - Open Source days

* Different format for open source days this year.
* We can do a BoF and/or a town hall meeting.
* We have to answer by next Wednesday (2024-04-27).
* Stephen: We don’t have much to update and announce…
* JC: We could use the platform to ask studios for help on package repositories, ask them what they use, etc.
* Stephen: Maybe use a live and interactive quiz/poll? What’s important to users, etc.
* Maybe discussions on workflows? So ask questions like: What do you do to solve this problem, etc Do you use Python 2.7 with the API?
* Thorsthen: Agrees getting more feedback from the community would be really useful.
* Stephen: Should we do a BoF or town hall?
* BoF would increase the barrier of entry for the community because it requires a SIGGRAPH ticket.
* Thorsten: Not going to go at SIGGRAPH because of cost.
* JC: We can easily come up with a couple of slides with the roadmap, etc.
* Stephen will talk to LF Marketing to see if what we want to do works and is doable.

### General items

#### PRs
* JC: Created two PRs for rez:
    * Simple for fixing CI
    * Dropping Python < 3.7 for installs: We’ll need to get approval from all TSC members. We’ll also need to document and communicate it.

#### Deadline rez integration
* Stephen: Deadline talks on slack: We are starting to have questions in the slack channel but we don't know much about the integration.
* Stephen: We should talk to them to better understand what they did and also help them a little bit.
* Stephen to reach out to them.

#### Windows shells
* Stephen: Tried to write tests for https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/1434 and getting mixed results. Would need some help.
* Thorsten volonteered to help.
* Stephen to post more information on the PR.
